Millennials will be unable to ever
afford a home based on the current
trajectory there's just no possible way
it could ever happen there's so much
debt there's no good jobs and the
working middle class aren't about to
donate their measly savings to the
Millennials it's become a complete joke
and while Central planners can continue
to push the stock prices artificially
higher you can't push an economy upward
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you today we are going
to look at the situation with
Millennials with the accumulation of
debt let's begin with this general
student loan debt fact okay let's cover
just a few points and then I'm going to
show you some
charts let's look at this
1.44 trillion in total us student loan
debt that is higher than credit card
debt if you you can imagine that imagine
all those Black Friday sales and the
people trampling each other and
literally dying on Black Friday to get
those sales racking up all that debt on
their credit cards and then doing the
same thing throughout the year it's not
even close to the amount of student that
that has been accumulated now a lot of
people scan the system they use their
student debt for things other than their
actual School
payments but it just shows you how far
this can expand 44 million Americans
have student loan debt and that is a big
number that means 44 million people are
burdened by this that's what you need to
understand and the average monthly
student loan payment
$351 that's quite significant when you
think about it a few hundred a month
going to pay off your debts and that's
only one piece the of the debt puzzle a
lot of people never get out of this and
that's where I see this trap happening
so let's cover a few points few charts I
won't cover every detail from all of
these but let's just touch on a few
points Millennials increasingly delaying
home ownership dream so there's
something to say about what's happening
with the home prices and while the US
home prices had declined significantly
during the recession
you had seen that these didn't really
allow more of the millennial generation
to purchase homes yes some of them did
for sure however they're still priced
out of the
market then you look at an area like
Canada and it's not even close in some
of these cities of like Vancouver
Toronto Montreal
others plans for home ownership I plan
to eventually Buy a house or apartment
and a lot of them say yes that's the
goal okay most of the people say that
they want to be able to buy a place how
many though said within the next year
Well essentially
nobody and then you look at this what I
find interesting five plus years from
now so they have that dream they have
that goal but it's not for several years
because of their current debt problems
because of their income maybe they don't
have a job or whatever but look at this
see what I see is this staircase here
and that is as the years go
on they are more likely to buy that home
later on into the
future that's pretty interesting because
they see it as being more of a dream as
the years go on and perhaps when we get
the newer data we will see this continue
I don't know but it looks like that's
the case anyway that's the trend showing
you that they can't afford it now and as
the years go on they seem to be less
likely to afford it I'm not going to
read you all of this obviously but I
just want to touch on one thing
Millennial down payment expectations
versus
reality every City's different they're
all priced different incomes are
different the situation is different but
if we just take a few just a look at
this Los Angeles being won the median
condo price
$420,000 a down payment of 20% would
mean
$84,000 down payment but the actual down
payment expectation
36% so you're looking at the expectation
over actual and that's
43% okay these people do not have the
amount of money that they need to have
that 20% down payment look at it any
City any City you look at it's worse
than what you see here in
La even when the prices like Austin
Texas for example
$239,000 median condo price the down
payment of 27% you're still looking at
47,000 and the expectation being 20,000
it works out to be the same
situation people are not able to afford
these homes they take more and more debt
because if you're not putting that 20%
down and you're getting some sort of
alternative mortgage lender you're going
to be paying a much higher rate and
you're making that assumption that
housing prices will continue to escalate
for the indefinite future that might be
the case certainly could be I'm not
betting on that
though when you see it the way it is and
you realize that people have been
extremely aggressive with the amount of
debt that they have carried it doesn't
look good because we saw that we saw
what happened with that in the tech boom
we saw people you know betting on all
kinds of margin and they went bankrupt
as a result of it and then you saw that
throughout the housing crisis similar
problem you're seeing that now with the
housing markets in Canada where they've
gone astronomical it's not necess
necessarily that people all of a sudden
have more money no they have more equity
in their homes and they've been pulling
that out so it's really a false boom
that we are
experiencing look at this how much have
you saved for a down payment so far and
looking at this I
mean most people
zero zero
dollars
and it's not even the younger younger
generation I mean we're looking at the
25 to 34 year olds and they're basically
in the same
situation 0 zero how much of your
monthly income are you saving for a down
payment this right
here
zero I
mean there's no savings happening none
that's the reason why people are
thinking okay it's going going to have
to be five years down the road from now
because I know it's not a small expense
it's a big expense and therefore it's
going to take me a few years to save I
can't do that now I've got some other
things to worry about but later later
I'm going to save later I'm going to buy
a place that's just the way it is but
later never comes that's just the way
it's
looking years needed to save a 20% down
payment I talk to people all the time
and they tell me that they are just
simply cannot afford 20% down how can
you do that they say how can you
possibly afford 20% down it's just not
possible now while the first one on this
L San Jose is a it's a heavy example
here because it's
expensive it really is I mean when you
compare San Francisco to an area like la
you got a different pictures but let's
just take a look at La okay Los Angeles
down payment 20% you're looking at
$84,000 the amount saved
$4,000 help on the down payment
$6,000 monthly down payment savings $
250 years needed to save a 20% down
payment 20 years 20 years if you're
saving the amount that the the average
person is saving to buy a home as an
example in La you are not going to have
that home for 20
years I mean think about that for a
second but everything's fine in the
economy I was told yet the average
person can afford a home anytime soon
and even when you compare it to other
cities look New
York Atlanta Orlando Tampa whatever it
doesn't matter you're still looking at
several
years before you're able to buy a home
and that's considering the fact that
nothing happens along the way and you're
able to save a few hundred per
month it's just an extreme amount of
debt that people will take on because
they're saying look I've been paying
into my rent for the last 20 years I've
had enough of this I'm just going to buy
a place take on the debt and hope that
everything works out but a lot of times
it doesn't work that way that's the
unfortunate part so what do we do what
do we do about this well number one we
have to try to get out of debt in the
first place a lot of people are carrying
around this student debt student loans
how are you ever going to be able to
take on even more debt if you got that
other Ballin chain attach to you well
this is something I talk about in my
books but essentially we need to look at
other ways to increase our income we
need to reduce our expenses think about
all the different ways that you can
reduce your expenses today I'm I assure
you I mean like I said I talked about it
in my books but think about all the
different ways that you're spending
money today that you don't have to
there's an extreme example and I believe
the book is entitled burn your mortgage
where the individual paid off their home
in a matter of three years three years
paid down their home now they lived
extremely frugally that's no doubt but
they did it they did it they bought the
home the guy was able to live as cheap
as cheap as possible he was earning
income in his 9 to-5 job he rented out
the basement of his place or I believe
he stayed in the basement rented out the
top
level either one he basically tried to
bring income in every single way did so
paid off the mortgage 3 years it's
possible guys it's really it really is
possible if you want to make it happen
you can do it um there there's a lot of
tips out there there's a lot of people
who are giving out some advice I have
some good advice in all of my works I
mean I talked about it in my in my
YouTube videos along the years I really
focused on it in my more recent book but
essentially figure out your ways to
reduce your expenses try to then
increase your income on the side there
are a lot of ways to do this you need to
be able to try
to here's one tip for you if you're
paying for a cell phone provider for
example internet provider
okay you're doing so at a particular
rate that you've negotiated perhaps a
year or two ago there are promotions all
the time from these companies literally
just call them up and ask for the latest
promotion a lot of times you can get a
cheaper price just by doing that sure it
might only save you $5 a month but that
$5 a month that's $5 in your
savings and there are other things that
can happen you call all of your
providers and figure out a way to reduce
those expenses you're already paying for
your cell phone your internet everything
else
else why not call them up
renegotiate that's going to take some
time in your part are you willing to
spend an hour on hold with these guys
and a little bit of arguing back and
forth or you just want to give them the
money you tell me well anyway that's
some of the tips that I'd like to give
if you found this video informative
please give me a thumbs
up last but not least if you found the
video informative I know you will find
my books the money GPS and my new
release global economic collapse even
more informative the new book is about
the four asset the old book is about the
four asset classes and how to profit
from them whereas the new book gets into
what I was talking about earlier
becoming self-sufficient reducing your
expenses tax incentives all kinds of
good stuff like that if you're
interested just go to Amazon they have a
look inside feature it's going to allow
you to flip through the pages of these
books to see if you like them take
care